docs/additional.rst, before:


.. role:: reverse
   :class: reverse

.. raw:: html

    <pre id='logo' class='center'>
    <span style="color:#729fcf">&#9484;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;</span><span style="color:#3465a4">&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9488;</span>
    <span style="color:#729fcf">&#9474;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#729fcf">&#9487;&#9473;&#9592;&#9487;</span><span style="color:#3465a4">&#9473;&#9491;&#9487;&#9491;&#9595;&#9487;&#9473;&#9491;&#9487;&#9473;&#9491;&#9595;</span>&#160;&#160;</span><span style="color:#3465a4">&#9487;&#9473;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9592;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9474;</span>
    <span style="color:#3465a4">&#9474;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#3465a4">&#9475;</span>&#160;&#160;</span><span style="color:#3465a4">&#9475;</span>&#160;</span><span style="color:#3465a4">&#9475;&#9475;&#9495;&#9515;&#9495;&#9473;&#9491;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9475;</span>&#160;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9475;&#9475;</span>&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9507;&#9592;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9474;</span>
    <span style="color:#3465a4">&#9474;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#3465a4">&#9495;&#9473;&#9592;&#9495;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9473;&#9499;&#9593;</span>&#160;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9593;&#9495;&#9473;&#9499;&#9495;&#9473;&#9499;&#9495;&#9473;&#9592;&#9495;&#9473;</span><span style="color:#555">&#9592;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#555">&#9474;</span>
    <span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9492;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;</span><span style="color:#555">&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9496;</span>
    </pre>

.. container:: center

    *Gimme! Gimme! Gimme! (A Man After Midnight)*

|

Additional Topics
=======================

.. rubric:: How do the styles work?

Behind the scenes in
:mod:`console.core`
you've been working with the two main parent classes of those in
:mod:`console.style`:

.. rubric:: Palette Collection:

A collection object holding a large number of Palettes and their associated
Entries, e.g.:

    - ``fg``, ``bg``, ``fx``
    - ``defx`` (for deactivating styles)

While the simplest palettes
(original and effects)
are created up front,
the rest are built up as needed,
on demand.
Like a traffic cop,
builders direct attribute access to the appropriate code to initialize them.

Once created,
attributes are cached and available for future use.
This namespace cache may also be cleared in uncommon scenarios using huge
palettes,
with the ``clear()`` method.

.. rubric:: Palette Entries:

Entrie objects are what actually produce the escape sequences---\
they are accessed as attributes of a palette collection, e.g.:

    - ``.red``
    - ``.i22``
    - ``.cornflowerblue``

The Entries provide much of the functionality from
:mod:`console.style`:

    - Keep track of their ANSI codes and those they've been added to.
    - Can be called and "mixed in" with other attributes to render
      themselves, then end the style when finished.
    - Can be used as a context-manager.
    - Last but not least,
      can be rendered as an escape sequence string on any form of output.

Similar functionality is available from
:mod:`console.screen`'s screen object.


.. rubric:: Automatic Detection

When automatic detection is used and palettes are found not to be supported,
palette entries are replaced instead with "dummy" blank objects that render to
nothing.
Well, more specifically empty strings.


.. raw:: html

    <div class="center rounded dark p1">
        <div class=pacman>
            <span class=pline>╭────────────────────────╮&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
            │
            </span>
            <span class=dots>·····•·····</span>
            <span id=pac>ᗤ</span>&nbsp;
            <span id=sha>ᗣ</span><span id=spe>ᗣ</span>
            <span id=bas>ᗣ</span><span id=pok>ᗣ</span>
            <span class=pline>│&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
            </span>
            <i style="opacity: .7">…waka waka waka…</i>&nbsp;&nbsp;
        </div>
    </div>


Initializing Your Own
------------------------

    *Can You Dig It?*

To configure auto-detection, palette support,
or detect other output streams besides stdout,
one may create palette builder objects yourself::

    from console.constants import ALL_PALETTES
    from console.style import BackgroundPalette

    # e.g. force all palettes on:
    fullbg = BackgroundPalette(palettes=ALL_PALETTES)


.. note::

    Forcing the support of all palettes ON can also be done externally with an
    environment variable,
    such as ``CLICOLOR_FORCE`` if desired.



::

    ¸¸,ø¤º°`°º¤ø,¸¸,ø¤º°`°º¤ø,¸,ø¤°º¤ø,¸¸,ø¤º°`°º¤ø,¸¸



Context Managers
-------------------

    *"I hope you know this violates my warranty!" — Twiki*

.. rubric:: Configuring Output

Console's Entry objects can be used as context managers as well.
We saw this in the readme previously.
An output file can be set if it needs to be changed from stdout and
not able to be redirected outside the process::

    dodgers = bg.w_dodgerblue
    dodgers.set_output(sys.stderr)

    with dodgers:
        print('Infield: Garvey, Lopes, Russel, Cey, Yeager')
        print('Outfield: Baker, Monday, Smith')

(There may be a way to streamline this in the future.
So, don't get too dependent on the set_output function. ;-)


.. rubric:: Fullscreen Apps, a la Blessings

Here's a short script to show off console's full-screen abilities::

    from console import fg, fx, defx  # shortcut: sc
    from console.screen import screen
    from console.utils import wait_key, set_title
    from console.constants import ESC

    exit_keys = (ESC, 'q', 'Q')

    with screen:  # or screen.fullscreen():

        set_title(' 🤓 Hi, from console!')
        with screen.location(5, 4):
            print(
                fg.lightgreen(f'** Hi, from a {fx.i}fullscreen{defx.i}'
                               ' app! ** '),
                screen.mv_x(5),  # back up, then down
                screen.down(5),
                fg.yellow(f'(Hit the {fx.reverse}ESC{defx.reverse} '
                           'key to exit): '),
                end='', flush=True,
            )
        with screen.hidden_cursor():

            wait_key(exit_keys)

The text below should appear.
After hitting the ESC restore your terminal shall be restored:

.. raw:: html

    <pre>

    <div style="color: green; ">
     * Hi, from a <i>fullscreen</i> app! **
    </div>



    <div style="color: #ba0; ">
      (Hit the <span style="background: #ba0; color: black">ESC</span> key to exit):
    </div>
    </pre>


.. rubric:: TermStack

TermStack is a content-manager for making temporary modifications to the
terminal via termios,
that copies the original settings and restores them when finished.

It's in the detection module because that's where it's used,
but also aliased to the package namespace.
For example::

    from console import TermStack

    with TermStack() as fd:
        # shut off echo
        tty.setcbreak(fd, termios.TCSANOW)
        sys.stdout.write(f'{CSI}6n')  # fire!
        sys.stdout.flush()

And off you go.


Screen Stuff
-------------------

    *What's Happening, "Raj" !?!*

The :mod:`console.screen` module is the one you're looking for,
although there is a preconfigured convenience instance in the root of the
package as well::

    >>> from console import sc

    >>> sc.eraseline(1)  # mode 1, clear to left
    '\x1b[1K'

    >>> print('already deleted!', sc.eraseline(1))

    >>>  # this space intentionally left blank ;-)


Tips
------------

Don't have many to list yet,
but there's at least one.

- The styles bold, italic, underline, and strike have one-letter shortcuts as
  they do in HTML,
  if you're into that sort of thing::

    # COWABUNGA !
    XTREME_STYLING = fx.b + fx.i + fx.u + fx.s


Deeper Dive
------------

    *Get down, boogie oogie oogie…---A Taste of Honey*

Still interested?
More than you wanted to know on the subject of terminals and escape codes can
be found below:

    - `Terminal Emulator <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminal_emulator>`_
    - `ANSI Escape Codes <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code>`_
    - `XTerm Control Sequences
      <http://invisible-island.net/xterm/ctlseqs/ctlseqs.html>`_
      (`PDF <https://www.x.org/docs/xterm/ctlseqs.pdf>`_)


.. rubric:: Aside - Warm Colors

Did you know that thirty years before
`f.lux <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/F.lux>`_
and
`redshift <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redshift_(software)>`_
debuted that Amber Monochrome monitors where known as the "ergonomic"
choice?
Easier on the eyes for extended periods (i.e. late nights) they said.
Interesting knowledge rediscovered, perhaps.

.. container:: center mt mb

    *"Believe it…*

    *or not!"*

    *---Jack Palance*


10-7, Signing Off…
--------------------

.. raw:: html

    <pre class=center>
       ♫♪ .ılılıll|̲̅̅●̲̅̅|̲̅̅=̲̅̅|̲̅̅●̲̅̅|llılılı. ♫♪&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    </pre>


.. figure:: _static/bjandbear.jpg
    :align: right
    :figwidth: 33%

    *"I'm B. J. McKay and this is my best friend Bear."*\
    `🖺 <https://www.memorabletv.com/tv/b-j-bear-nbc-1979-1981-greg-evigan-claude-akins/>`_\
    `🖹 <http://www.lyricsondemand.com/tvthemes/bjandthebearlyrics.html>`_

|

    - *Keep On Truckin'*
    - *Catch you on the flip-side*
    - *Good night, John-boy*

and…

    - *Goodbye Seventies*


.. raw:: html

    <br clear=all>

Commit message:

enh: windows support enable_vt_processing

docs/additional.rst, after:


.. role:: reverse
   :class: reverse

.. raw:: html

    <pre id='logo' class='center'>
    <span style="color:#729fcf">&#9484;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;</span><span style="color:#3465a4">&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9488;</span>
    <span style="color:#729fcf">&#9474;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#729fcf">&#9487;&#9473;&#9592;&#9487;</span><span style="color:#3465a4">&#9473;&#9491;&#9487;&#9491;&#9595;&#9487;&#9473;&#9491;&#9487;&#9473;&#9491;&#9595;</span>&#160;&#160;</span><span style="color:#3465a4">&#9487;&#9473;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9592;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9474;</span>
    <span style="color:#3465a4">&#9474;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#3465a4">&#9475;</span>&#160;&#160;</span><span style="color:#3465a4">&#9475;</span>&#160;</span><span style="color:#3465a4">&#9475;&#9475;&#9495;&#9515;&#9495;&#9473;&#9491;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9475;</span>&#160;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9475;&#9475;</span>&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9507;&#9592;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9474;</span>
    <span style="color:#3465a4">&#9474;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#3465a4">&#9495;&#9473;&#9592;&#9495;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9473;&#9499;&#9593;</span>&#160;</span><span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9593;&#9495;&#9473;&#9499;&#9495;&#9473;&#9499;&#9495;&#9473;&#9592;&#9495;&#9473;</span><span style="color:#555">&#9592;</span>&#160;&#160;&#160;<span style="color:#555">&#9474;</span>
    <span style="color:#b4b8b0">&#9492;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;</span><span style="color:#555">&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9472;&#9496;</span>
    </pre>

.. container:: center

    *Gimme! Gimme! Gimme! (A Man After Midnight)*

|

Additional Topics
=======================

.. rubric:: How do the styles work?

Behind the scenes in
:mod:`console.core`
you've been working with the two main parent classes of those in
:mod:`console.style`:

.. rubric:: Palette Collection:

A collection object holding a large number of Palettes and their associated
Entries, e.g.:

    - ``fg``, ``bg``, ``fx``
    - ``defx`` (for deactivating styles)

While the simplest palettes
(original and effects)
are created up front,
the rest are built up as needed,
on demand.
Like a traffic cop,
builders direct attribute access to the appropriate code to initialize them.

Once created,
attributes are cached and available for future use.
This namespace cache may also be cleared in uncommon scenarios using huge
palettes,
with the ``clear()`` method.

.. rubric:: Palette Entries:

Entrie objects are what actually produce the escape sequences---\
they are accessed as attributes of a palette collection, e.g.:

    - ``.red``
    - ``.i22``
    - ``.cornflowerblue``

The Entries provide much of the functionality from
:mod:`console.style`:

    - Keep track of their ANSI codes and those they've been added to.
    - Can be called and "mixed in" with other attributes to render
      themselves, then end the style when finished.
    - Can be used as a context-manager.
    - Last but not least,
      can be rendered as an escape sequence string on any form of output.

Similar functionality is available from
:mod:`console.screen`'s screen object.


.. rubric:: Automatic Detection

When automatic detection is used and palettes are found not to be supported,
palette entries are replaced instead with "dummy" blank objects that render to
nothing.
Well, more specifically empty strings.


.. raw:: html

    <div class="center rounded dark p1">
        <div class=pacman>
            <span class=pline>╭────────────────────────╮&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
            │
            </span>
            <span class=dots>·····•·····</span>
            <span id=pac>ᗤ</span>&nbsp;
            <span id=sha>ᗣ</span><span id=spe>ᗣ</span>
            <span id=bas>ᗣ</span><span id=pok>ᗣ</span>
            <span class=pline>│&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>
            </span>
            <i style="opacity: .7">…waka waka waka…</i>&nbsp;&nbsp;
        </div>
    </div>


Initializing Your Own
------------------------

    *Can You Dig It?*

To configure auto-detection, palette support,
or detect other output streams besides stdout,
one may create palette builder objects yourself::

    from console.constants import ALL_PALETTES
    from console.style import BackgroundPalette

    # e.g. force all palettes on:
    fullbg = BackgroundPalette(palettes=ALL_PALETTES)


.. note::

    Forcing the support of all palettes ON can also be done externally with an
    environment variable,
    such as ``CLICOLOR_FORCE`` if desired.



::

    ¸¸,ø¤º°`°º¤ø,¸¸,ø¤º°`°º¤ø,¸,ø¤°º¤ø,¸¸,ø¤º°`°º¤ø,¸¸



Context Managers
-------------------

    *"I hope you know this violates my warranty!" — Twiki*

.. rubric:: Configuring Output

Console's Entry objects can be used as context managers as well.
We saw this in the readme previously.
An output file can be set if it needs to be changed from stdout and
not able to be redirected outside the process::

    dodgers = bg.w_dodgerblue
    dodgers.set_output(sys.stderr)

    with dodgers:
        print('Infield: Garvey, Lopes, Russel, Cey, Yeager')
        print('Outfield: Baker, Monday, Smith')

(There may be a way to streamline this in the future.
So, don't get too dependent on the set_output function. ;-)


.. rubric:: Fullscreen Apps, a la Blessings

Here's a short script to show off console's full-screen abilities::

    from console import fg, fx, defx  # shortcut: sc
    from console.screen import screen
    from console.utils import wait_key, set_title
    from console.constants import ESC

    exit_keys = (ESC, 'q', 'Q')

    with screen:  # or screen.fullscreen():

        set_title(' 🤓 Hi, from console!')
        with screen.location(5, 4):
            print(
                fg.lightgreen(f'** Hi, from a {fx.i}fullscreen{defx.i}'
                               ' app! ** '),
                screen.mv_x(5),  # back up, then down
                screen.down(5),
                fg.yellow(f'(Hit the {fx.reverse}ESC{defx.reverse} '
                           'key to exit): '),
                end='', flush=True,
            )
        with screen.hidden_cursor():

            wait_key(exit_keys)

The text below should appear.
After hitting the ESC restore your terminal shall be restored:

.. raw:: html

    <pre>

    <div style="color: green; ">
     * Hi, from a <i>fullscreen</i> app! **
    </div>



    <div style="color: #ba0; ">
      (Hit the <span style="background: #ba0; color: black">ESC</span> key to exit):
    </div>
    </pre>


.. rubric:: TermStack

TermStack is a content-manager for making temporary modifications to the
terminal via termios,
that copies the original settings and restores them when finished.

It's in the detection module because that's where it's used,
but also aliased to the package namespace.
For example::

    from console import TermStack

    with TermStack() as fd:
        # shut off echo
        tty.setcbreak(fd, termios.TCSANOW)
        sys.stdout.write(f'{CSI}6n')  # fire!
        sys.stdout.flush()

And off you go.


Screen Stuff
-------------------

    *What's Happening, "Raj" !?!*

The :mod:`console.screen` module is the one you're looking for,
although there is a preconfigured convenience instance in the root of the
package as well::

    >>> from console import sc

    >>> sc.eraseline(1)  # mode 1, clear to left
    '\x1b[1K'

    >>> print('already deleted!', sc.eraseline(1))

    >>>  # this space intentionally left blank ;-)


Tips
------------

Don't have many to list yet,
but here's a couple.

- The styles bold, italic, underline, and strike have one-letter shortcuts as
  they do in HTML,
  if you're into that sort of thing::

    # COWABUNGA !
    XTREME_STYLING = fx.b + fx.i + fx.u + fx.s

- Haven't figured out how to detect it yet,
  but for now ANSI support can be enabled on Windows 10 with the following
  incantation::

    >>> import console.windows as cw

    >>> cw.enable_virtual_terminal_processing()
    (0, 0)



Deeper Dive
------------

    *Get down, boogie oogie oogie…---A Taste of Honey*

Still interested?
More than you wanted to know on the subject of terminals and escape codes can
be found below:

    - `Terminal Emulator <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminal_emulator>`_
    - `ANSI Escape Codes <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code>`_
    - `XTerm Control Sequences
      <http://invisible-island.net/xterm/ctlseqs/ctlseqs.html>`_
      (`PDF <https://www.x.org/docs/xterm/ctlseqs.pdf>`_)
    - `ANSI Terminal Animations
      <http://artscene.textfiles.com/vt100/>`_ - Get busy!


.. rubric:: Aside - Warm Colors

Did you know that thirty years before
`f.lux <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/F.lux>`_
and
`redshift <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Redshift_(software)>`_
debuted that Amber Monochrome monitors where known as the "ergonomic"
choice?
Easier on the eyes for extended periods (i.e. late nights) they said.
Interesting knowledge rediscovered, perhaps.

.. container:: center mt mb

    *"Believe it…*

    *or not!"*

    *---Jack Palance*


10-7, Signing Off…
--------------------

.. raw:: html

    <pre class=center>
       ♫♪ .ılılıll|̲̅̅●̲̅̅|̲̅̅=̲̅̅|̲̅̅●̲̅̅|llılılı. ♫♪&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
    </pre>


.. figure:: _static/bjandbear.jpg
    :align: right
    :figwidth: 33%

    *"I'm B. J. McKay and this is my best friend Bear."*\
    `🖺 <https://www.memorabletv.com/tv/b-j-bear-nbc-1979-1981-greg-evigan-claude-akins/>`_\
    `🖹 <http://www.lyricsondemand.com/tvthemes/bjandthebearlyrics.html>`_

|

    - *Keep On Truckin'*
    - *Catch you on the flip-side*
    - *Good night, John-boy*

and…

    - *Goodbye Seventies*


.. raw:: html

    <br clear=all>
